[Shared Element Transition] Documentation (#4120)
software-mansion/react-native-reanimated: docs/docs/api/LayoutAnimations/SharedElementTransition.md

---
id: sharedElementTransition
title: Shared Element Transition
sidebar_label: Shared Element Transition
---

:::caution

> The Shared Element Transition is an experimental feature. No recommended for production usage. We are waiting for your feedback to improve implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shared Element Transitions is an experimental feature, not recommended for production use yet. We are waiting for your feedback to improve implementation.
```

## How to use it?
To create a shared transition animation between two components on different screens, simply assign the same `sharedTransitionTag` to both components. When you navigate between screens, the shared transition animation will automatically play. The shared transition feature works by searching for two components that have been registered with the same `sharedTransitionTag`. If you want to use more than one shared view on the same screen, be sure to assign a unique shared tag to each component.

**Screen A**
```tsx {2}
<View 

>   sharedTransitionTag="reanimatedTransition" // <-- shared tag

Reviewer: 1. Let's use `sharedTag` here for the purpose of consistency.
2. This line is already highlighted so we don't need the arrow in the comment.
```suggestion
  sharedTransitionTag="sharedTag"

>   style={{ width: 100, height: 200 }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  style={{ width: 150, height: 150, backgroundColor: 'green' }}
```

/>
```

**Screen B**
```tsx {2}
<View 

>   sharedTransitionTag="reanimatedTransition" // <-- shared tag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  sharedTransitionTag="sharedTag"
```

>   style={{ width: 200, height: 100 }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  style={{ width: 100, height: 100, backgroundColor: 'green' }}
```

/>
```

## Custom animation
1. You need to create custom transition with Reanimated API, for example:
```js
import { SharedTransition } from 'react-native-reanimated';
const transition = SharedTransition.custom((values) => {
  'worklet';
  return {
    height: withSpring(values.targetHeight),
    width: withSpring(values.targetWidth),
  };
});
```

> 2. You need to add custom transition as `sharedTransitionStyle` prop to your both components (on both screens):

Reviewer: Is it necessary to use the same `transition` in `sharedTransitionStyle` prop for both components, or can I use two different transitions?

Author: Yes, you may use two different transitions, with one being utilized when transitioning from screen A to B and the other when transitioning from screen B back to A.

```tsx {2,3}
<View 

>   sharedTransitionTag="reanimatedTransition" // <-- shared tag
>   sharedTransitionStyle={transition}         // <-- transition animation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  sharedTransitionTag="reanimatedTransition"
  sharedTransitionStyle={transition}
```

>   style={{ width: 200, height: 100 }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  style={{ backgroundColor: 'blue', width: 200, height: 100 }}
```

import Animated from 'react-native-reanimated';

const Stack = createNativeStackNavigator();

function Screen1({ navigation }) {
  return (
    <View style={{ flex: 1 }}>
      <Animated.View
        style={{ width: 150, height: 150, backgroundColor: 'green' }}
        sharedTransitionTag="sharedTag"
      />
      <Button title="Screen2" onPress={() => navigation.navigate('Screen2')} />
    </View>
  );
}

function Screen2({ navigation }) {
  return (
    <View style={{ flex: 1, marginTop: 50 }}>
      <Animated.View
        style={{ width: 100, height: 100, backgroundColor: 'green' }}
        sharedTransitionTag="sharedTag"
      />
      <Button title="Screen1" onPress={() => navigation.navigate('Screen1')} />
    </View>
  );
}

export default function SharedElementExample() {
  return (
    <NavigationContainer>
      <Stack.Navigator screenOptions={{ headerShown: true }}>
        <Stack.Screen name="Screen1" component={Screen1} />
        <Stack.Screen name="Screen2" component={Screen2} />
      </Stack.Navigator>
    </NavigationContainer>
  );
}
```

## Limitation and known issues
- Only the native stack is supported.

> - You can only animate width, height, originX, originY, and transformMatrix properties when using the shared transition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can only animate `width`, `height`, `originX`, `originY`, and `transformMatrix` properties when using the shared transition.
```
